---
title: Insert title here
key: e71d02ee7e7a580461180b019aa519bb

---
## Retirement Take Two Part 1

```yaml
type: "TitleSlide"
key: "b8c851859c"
```

`@lower_third`

name: Erin Buchanan
title: Professor


`@script`
In the previous set of exercises, you learned how to plan for retirement using real dollar amounts. Here, we are going to extend to nominal dollar calculations.


---
## Nominal Dollars

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "bc614eef97"
center_content: false
```

`@part1`
Real dollar planning assumes uniform stock returns

Nominal dollar planning incorporates a security horizon

Model will sell enough stock to maintain expenses through the security horizon


`@script`
When we previously planned for retirement, we focused on creating model that assumed the same return on our stocks across years. In reality, we know that the stock market can be volatile, so we can consider planning in nominal dollar amounts. This model includes a security horizon, which is 10 to 15 year period of safe investments to withdraw money from when the stock market is poor.


---
## Fixed Information

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "ed02ae58be"
```

`@part1`
Hey a picture here of the sheet.


`@script`
First, create a sheet with all the fixed information for the model, including: returned on our income, return on stocks, ordinary tax rate, capital gains tax rates, inflation rates, initial balance, initial withdrawal, and security horizon. These numbers are our best guess for the variables that impact retirement planning. After we are finished creating our model plan, these values can be adjusted to plan for different retirement scenarios.


---
## Yearly Information

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "96173de9bd"
```

`@part1`
Hey another picture here of the yearly section. 

check the money withdrawn statement how you have it calculating


`@script`
Our first year balance is equal to the initial balance or equal CELLNUMBER. After that, we use the fixed income balance plus the equity balance plus the money withdrawn.


---
## The pv function

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "0b9a3da52c"
```

`@part1`
explain how pv works 

add a picture here


`@script`



---
## Add Stock Information

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "a1421b3b0b"
```

`@part1`
Figure out the stock to sell

Add stock holding


`@script`



---
## Try it yourself!

```yaml
type: "FinalSlide"
key: "6ecd664d35"
```

`@script`
Let's go to the exercises and create the first half of our nominal dollar retirement model.

